All right.
Hello, everyone.
Hope you're enjoying the day so far.
My name is Allan Schaffer.
I'm the Game Technologies Evangelist
at Apple.
And this session is about something
that I know that a lot of you are very
excited about just from talking to you
over in the lab and before in the day,
which is Sprite Kit.
But, you know,
before I really dive into that content,
what I want to do is just reflect
on some of the motivations behind
Sprite Kit that we talked about back
when we introduced it back at WWDC.
You know, if you really look at the
App Store and some of the most iconic
games that are on the platform,
many of them are 2D, of course,
and a lot of them have
some very common needs.
They need to be able to draw a lot of
sprites and particles for characters.
They need to be able to create a
framework for 2D game development.
And something that would be built
from the beginning to accomplish
those things with performance as
a central tenet of the framework.
You know,
not something where you really had to
kind of opt into the performance API.
Or, you know, you had to kind of opt
into the performance API.
Or adopt something special to do that.
But where efficiency was really part
of the baseline of the framework.
Another big motivation also was that
it would keep up with our technologies.
Something that from day one would
support 64-bit applications.
And would support iOS 7 and so on.
And a lot of that is what's driven
the development of Sprite Kit.
And I think that we've built
something that you'll really love.
So Sprite Kit starts with a really fast,
really optimized API.
And it's a really fast
engine for drawing sprites,
arbitrary shapes, and particle effects.
And then it also provides you with
capabilities for doing animations to
animate those objects in the scene.
And has a totally integrated
physics engine to drive things,
make them more lifelike
and more fun in the game.
And Sprite Kit also integrates
with our media stack in iOS
7 to play audio and video.
And to apply image processing
effects to the scene.
And then it also integrates
with our media stack in iOS
7 to play audio and video.
And those are some of the capabilities
on the API side of Sprite Kit.
But we also wanted to provide some
tools to simplify development.
So within Xcode 5,
there's a particle editor
built right into the tool.
So you can edit particle effects
and bring them into your app.
And a texture atlas generator as well.
Which is something that's
very core to getting good
performance in any 2D game engine.
Here's my agenda for the session.
Today I want to cover some of the real,
real basics of Sprite Kit.
Just go through sprites and
particles and how to get started
from scratch with Sprite Kit.
Then dive into some more advanced topics
like textures and texture atlases.
Really, texture atlases being one of
the two keys to getting great
performance with Sprite Kit.
Then I want to transition to some
things that we didn't cover at WWDC.
The first of those is scene transitions,
which is something that will be very
commonly done in a Sprite Kit-based game.
Then cover drawing order.
That's actually the second key
to getting great performance
when you're using Sprite Kit.
And then go back to some just
introductory material again
and show you how some of the
animation part of Sprite Kit works.
So let's get started just with a quick
tour of the API and some of these
basics with sprites and particles.
So in Sprite Kit,
your scene is composed of a tree
structure of many elements called nodes.
All of these things are nodes,
everything you see.
Now, some nodes contain visual content,
shapes, images,
all the things in blue here.
So for example, if this were a scene,
my background image, the trees, the hero,
the character,
and if I had a life counter
and a hit point bar,
all of those visual parts of
the scene are different nodes.
And then other parts of the scene,
typically the interior nodes in this
graph are often used as organizational
elements for grouping or just to
be able to do transformations on
an entire subtree of the graph.
So you see those,
those are the green ones here.
So I'm organizing this graph
logically into a background layer,
a foreground layer, and a HUD layer.
And I'm able to apply,
change different properties on
those nodes and those changes
then apply to the children.
But then, of course,
we have to take that scene graph
and somehow get it to be displayed
in your app's view hierarchy.
And to do that, you'll use an SK View.
So an SK View is a UI view or on the Mac,
an NSView subclass that knows how to
kick off the rendering of your scene.
And so once you've dropped
an SK View into your app,
you can tell it to present the scene,
and you'll be off and running.
And at that point, then,
that's where the Sprite
Kit game loop kicks in.
And so I want to show that to you here.
So this is a sequence of events that
are going to happen every frame once
your scene has been assigned to a view.
So every frame.
Sprite Kit is going to
want to render your scene,
but before it does that,
it does a few other tasks and lets you
tie in your game code into the cycle.
So every frame is going to start
off with Sprite Kit calling your
update method for the scene.
And so this is where you can be
doing any of your game logic.
Maybe you'll choose to spawn new enemies,
or you'll update your score,
update the state of the game,
choose to progress to a new level,
and so on.
Whatever is specific to your game
update for this particular frame.
Then after you've done all that,
Sprite Kit is going to evaluate its
actions or any animations that are
attached to the nodes in the scene
that are active for this current frame.
Then after those have been evaluated,
you'll get a callback.
So,
As shown here,
did evaluate actions so that
you can react to essentially
the result of those animations.
So this is after the animations have
changed the positions of the nodes,
for example,
or whatever the result of that action is.
So for instance, if an animation ended up
moving a sprite off screen,
then you might want to remove
it from the scene so it won't be
included in any further processing.
That sort of thing is
what you can do here.
Then after that's done, Sprite Kit,
if you're using physics,
it will then simulate any physics that
you've set up on the nodes in your scene,
and it'll update you about any collisions
that have occurred and other things.
And then it'll call you back to let you
know that all of that has been completed.
And now at this point,
this is the last time that your code can
touch the scene before it's rendered.
So you can make any final changes to it.
Now before you hand off
to Sprite Kit again.
And so then finally, Sprite Kit tells,
or the SK view,
tells the scene to render itself.
And then hopefully this entire loop then
continues 30 or 60 frames per second.
Right?
So that's the game loop.
But so now let me switch over and
take a look at some of the different
kinds of nodes you have in Sprite Kit.
This is an illustration
of the class hierarchy.
So all the node types inherit
ultimately from SKNode,
and then there's a number of different
specialized subclasses to do various
kind of interesting things in your game.
So nodes for text labels,
nodes for particle systems,
for drawing arbitrary shapes,
for drawing sprites.
Your scene is actually a special kind of
node that can have effects applied to it.
And a crop node is a kind of
node that can apply a mask.
Now I'm not going to go
through all of these,
but just a couple of the highlights here,
starting with the base class, SKNode.
So this is an object that
if it's in your scene,
it's typically something that
you'll be using to organize
other nodes into groups,
or as a handle, for example,
to transform a subtree of children.
And you can see a few of the
properties here of the SK node,
and there's really, there's a lot more.
This is the place,
as you're looking through
the documentation,
that you should really start to see a
lot of the capabilities of Sprite Kit.
Even though most of the time you'll
probably be using the Sprite node,
check out all of the methods and
properties that can be set on SK node,
because obviously they're inherited.
But so, you can see,
you can get your parent,
the node's children,
its transformations for position,
rotation, and scale,
properties to control visibility,
like its alpha,
whether or not it's hidden.
And of course,
just note that any properties
that are set on a parent node
implicitly apply to that node.
And to all of its children.
So by setting the hidden flag,
for example,
you can hide an entire subtree,
for instance.
And then nodes can run actions,
meaning animations,
and they can take part in the
physics calculations as well.
So that's SK Node.
Let me just go on.
Next up is Sprite Node.
So this is obviously Sprite Kit,
Sprite Node.
Here's the most important node
type that you have in the toolkit.
And really,
probably the main node class that
you'll be using in your games.
Probably 90, 80,
90% of the nodes that you
have will be Sprite Nodes.
And a Sprite Node can
be one of two things.
It can either just draw a simple color,
or it can hold an image,
typically with alpha to give
the illusion of a cutout shape,
or it can be a blend of the two.
[ Transcript missing ]
There's a whole lot of different
properties that you can set
up with your particle effects.
Of course,
you're going to specify a texture image,
and then there's really just
all these different parameters
that you can fiddle with,
looking at the list.
The scale, the rotation, the emission,
blending, birth rate, and so on.
Kind of endless possibilities here.
There's a lot of fiddling
that you could do.
Very early on,
it became clear that we needed
to move this out of just the
code and provide a tool to be
able to manipulate all of this.
And so that's why we have in Xcode a
particle editor built right into Xcode 5,
so you don't have to leave your project.
And really, it's just very, very simple.
So what this does is it lets
you have an SK emitter node,
and you can just manipulate
all of its properties visually.
And then just have that
saved into your project.
It's going to create an archive
of that SK emitter node,
and then you can just
use NSKeyedUnarchiver to
bring it into your app.
And this is great,
because it lets you kind of separate
all the adjustments of your particle
system outside of a compilation cycle.
Okay, so that's actually where I want
to stop and show a quick demo
of a simple SpriteKit app.
That I'll build up here.
First, let me give you just a very
quick tour around this.
So this is really just an
app that's built mostly off
of the SpriteKit template
that you can get in Xcode.
And then I've added just
a couple of simple things.
I've added a ship into it,
but here's just how it works.
When you initialize this scene,
it starts out by setting
its background color.
It creates a label node that's
going to say hello world
in the middle of the frame.
But that wasn't very interesting.
So down here, when you touch,
I have it set up so that it
will create a Sprite node the
first time that you do a touch.
And set the position of that
Sprite to the location of the
touch and add it to the scene.
And then as I move around
down here and touch is moved,
I'm just updating the position
of the Sprite called ship.
And as I'm moving.
So let's just run that in
the simulator really quickly.
Show you where we're starting.
Hello world.
Okay.
And now here's my Sprite.
And as I'm moving around
just by hand here,
the Sprite moves around.
Okay.
Great.
Nothing too exciting yet.
But on the other hand, I mean,
that really is kind of all it takes
to get up and running with the very,
very basics of SpriteKit.
And that's kind of nice.
You know,
you can have something where then you are
beginning to work on your artwork very,
very quickly.
But so that's where
I want to go with this.
I'm going to start with this.
I'm going to start adding
some things in here.
And I want to show you
the particle system.
So here I'm in iOS resources,
SpriteKit particle file.
I'll hit next.
And I don't know if you
can see this very well.
We provide a number of
different particle templates.
Here I've chosen fire,
but there's a whole bunch more that
you can go and experiment with.
I'm going to stick with fire.
Hit next.
And call it exhaust.
So there's the beginning of sort of a
default fire effect that we provide.
And now there's some different things
I want to go in here and adjust.
And so let me zoom in so
you can see what I'm doing.
So first, I'm going to take the birth
rate of the particles down
into the realm of about 100.
I can either just do that
by moving the mouse around,
or I can go in here and type 100.
I want to change the angle
to go down instead of up.
And I'm going to make
this a little more narrow.
Yeah, that looks about right.
That's about where I want it,
about half the size as it was.
And then I'm going to add one
more color to the end of it.
So I think I may have to zoom
out to find my color picker.
And sure enough, yep, there it is.
I'm going to make it a little brighter.
Okay.
So there.
I've twiddled a couple of things
with this particle effect here.
So now, if you can see it,
it starts out sort of reddish
and ends kind of greenish through
the lifetime of each particle.
And it's just saved here in my project,
exhaust.sks.
And I'm going to go back into the
scene and bring that in and do
some code here to bring it in.
So through the magic of Xcode,
I think I can just paste
in a line of code there.
Yep, there it is.
I know that you guys all
can do the same as well.
But okay,
so let's look at what this is doing.
SK emitter node,
I'm using an NSKeyed unarchiver to,
and then just make your way through
all that to unarchive exhaust.sks.
Right?
So now I have my SK emitter
node sitting in this variable.
So I'm going to go back
to my Xline of code.
Okay.
I'm going to set its position down
to the center bottom of the ship.
And then add the emitter
as a child of the ship.
OK?
Run that.
Should be no surprises here.
Okay, so there it is, right?
So I have my emitter in the scene,
and as I move around,
it moves along with it.
Okay, I'm not quite done here, though,
because as you can see,
everything is working almost correctly,
but it kind of feels like the whole
thing is like on a plate of glass,
like the smoke is actually moving
as the ship moves along as well.
And that's not quite what I want.
What's happening is because all
of the emitter particles are being
positioned relative to the ship,
and as I change the position of the ship,
that change propagates into the children,
and so they're all kind
of moving along with it.
That's not what I want.
I want the emitter particles to be
emitted from the position of the ship,
but once they're emitted,
I want them to be kind of in free space.
I want them to be -- remain
relative to the scene instead
of relative to the ship.
So I've got one more line of code.
So what I can do is
on the emitter itself,
I can say, hey, emitter,
your target node is, well, in this case,
self, because self is the scene.
So your target is the entire
scene rather than your parent.
And now if I run that...
Great.
Now it's working the
way you would expect.
As I move the ship around,
the particles just kind of fall
relative to where they started from.
Okay, so that is just a very
simple example of Sprite Kit.
Good performance, of course,
in this case, and obviously just some
very easy code to write.
All I've really done here that's
more than a single line of code
is the wraparound here for messing
with an NSKeyed unarchiver,
right?
And that is itself very simple.
Okay, so let's go back.
Okay, so let me recap the node types
and what I've gone through so far.
So I covered nodes, sprites,
and emitters.
I briefly mentioned scenes.
I'll go back to that in a little bit.
But then there really are,
there's a lot of other node types.
As I said, we have labels,
which render a text string.
That was the Hello World.
Video nodes are very powerful.
You can have video in your
scene acting as a sprite,
as a full-fledged sprite.
You know, not just an overlay,
but it can have effects that
are relative to it and so on.
Shape nodes let you render
a shape based on a CG path.
Effect nodes let you
put a core image filter,
apply a core image filter
to a subtree of your scene.
And crop nodes will create a mask
from a subtree and allow you to
apply that mask to the rendering.
So it's a lot of good capabilities there.
Okay, so those are the node types.
And that's sort of just the very
quick introduction to the node family
and kind of how SpriteKit works.
What I want to move on to now is to
talk about textures and texture atlases.
And textures,
the fundamental SpriteKit bitmap
image type is SK texture.
So this is the image
that is in a sprite node,
and it's the image that's also
used for particles as well.
And the thing about this class
is really its flexibility.
There's a lot of different ways that
you can create a texture in SpriteKit.
You can load them from a file,
which is what I was just showing,
using texture with image named or the
convenience method that's on sprite node,
which is what you saw before.
You can create them from a CG image ref.
You can create them from an
NSData with a size from a UI image.
Or even create them
from another SLR image.
Or what I'll show here are the
subregion of another SK texture.
And the reason why I highlight that is
because this is actually how texture
atlases are implemented in SpriteKit.
When you're creating a texture
from a subregion of some other one,
we don't actually go and copy
the bits out and create some
second copy sitting somewhere.
We just have it index
that original texture.
And this enables it to be very efficient.
You can have one large image
that's loaded and then be sampling
subregions out of it very,
very efficiently.
All of this is hinting
at texture atlases,
so let's talk about that
more explicitly now.
As I said,
texture atlases really are one of the
keys to performance with Sprite Kit.
And really, with any 2D graphics engine,
the ability to minimize state
changes in your underlying graphics
engine by using things like texture
atlases is just absolutely critical.
So the idea of a texture atlas is to take
a whole bunch of loose texture images,
and rather than dealing with
them all individually kind of
in a small way for each one,
is to just take them all and put them,
basically paste them all
into one larger image,
and then sample regions of that
larger image during runtime.
So the underlying graphics
engine then can just load
that large image into the GPU.
And then the code is doing is saying, oh,
okay, I want this little region of
it or that little region of it,
rather than having to have a bunch
of little textures and be swapping
them in and out all the time.
So it's much more efficient.
What you see here in this diagram
is we ship an example along with
Sprite Kit called Adventure.
It's a big, full-fledged adventure game.
And it has a lot of
different assets and artwork.
And so on along with it.
And so these are some of the art assets,
like trees and caves
and minions and so on.
So rather than having, like,
all of these be separate textures
that we're dealing with and
loading into the GPU independently,
we just throw them all into a
texture atlas for performance.
[ Transcript missing ]
And so this is something
that's very common,
and we hadn't really
described that very much.
But it's just important to realize,
and that you're not doing
anything unusual if you
start using multiple scenes.
Now, one thing, though,
was that we also wanted
to make the transitions,
you know, of course,
you want your transitions
to look very nice.
And so for that, we provide an object
called an SK transition.
So this does a transition between your
current scene and a new one coming in.
And a visual transition.
And there's a lot of different
transitions that are built in.
We have transitions for a crossfade
between scenes or fade through a color.
There's transitions of a door closing
and the new scene is on the door.
Or doors opening and the
new scene is back on.
There's transitions behind that.
There's transitions to flip horizontally
and vertically to the new scene.
Or to move and push and reveal and so on.
But then also, something that I'm really
kind of jazzed about is that
there are a lot of CI filter,
core image filter-based transitions.
Swipe, flash, page curl, ripple,
copy machine, disintegrate, dissolve.
There's all these
different core image-based.
Transition effects.
And it's also possible for you to extend
that and create custom transitions
by creating a CI filter subclass.
Now, you can't write a new
core image kernel in iOS.
But you can subclass CI filter
and create a whole filter chain
within your new custom subclass.
And have some really
intricate transition effects.
And I'll just, as an aside,
I'll mention that same idea can also.
Be applied to an SK emitter node
which wants a CI filter as well.
So, there's tremendous power there for
doing image-based effects with your
2D objects or your entire scene.
But so, let's take a look,
kind of back up and look
at a simpler example.
Let's say that I have a transition.
And I want to move the new scene up from
the bottom and cover up the old scene.
So, I'm going to create a move in.
With direction transition.
Of direction up.
And the duration of the transition
is going to be two seconds.
And then next.
Okay.
So, I have a decision to make here.
About whether I want to pause
the rendering of either the new
scene or the old scene or both.
Now, by default,
once I begin a transition,
both will pause.
But in this case.
By default.
In this case, what I'm saying is, no,
I don't want to pause the outgoing scene.
I want it to keep playing
until the new one comes fully
into place two seconds later.
And keep rendering until
that transition ends.
So that's what this does here.
Pauses outgoing scene as no.
And then finally here,
this is the part that
actually just does the work.
I tell the view to present the new
scene and pass in the transition.
And that's it.
Okay, so that's just a real quick look
at transitions and dealing with
multiple scenes and something you'll
be actually doing a lot of with Sprite
Kit under very normal circumstances.
Next, a really important topic.
I want to talk about drawing
order because this has such a
profound impact on performance.
It's another topic also that we
didn't get to at WWDC last June.
The lesson here is that the
more that you can let Sprite
Kit manage the drawing order of your
sprites and particles and so on,
the more optimization Sprite
Kit can apply to the rendering.
Okay, so the more that you take control,
the less optimized it can be.
The more that you give control,
the more efficient it can be.
All right, so by default,
we give you total control.
We put you in control of drawing order.
And it's a Sprite engine,
and it's using the painter's
algorithm for all of its drawing.
So by default,
we follow two very simple rules.
A parent draws its content
before it renders its children,
and children are rendered in the order
that they appear in the child array.
Right?
So let's look at an example
here with this helicopter.
So the missiles will be drawn first,
then the body of the
helicopter will be drawn next,
then the primary rotor
will be overlaid on that,
and then the tail rotor
will be overlaid last.
Okay.
And you get the result that's here,
and it looks correct,
and everything is fine.
And actually, this is okay.
But the issue is if you are
drawing a lot of these objects,
then you'll want to do
something that's more efficient.
You'll want to give more.
control over the
SpriteKit to optimize this.
So there's a couple of different
optimizations you can apply.
The first is this,
is that you can give your nodes
an explicit height in the scene
specified relative to their parent.
So when this is added in,
then each node's sort of global
height will be calculated when
we go to render the scene.
And all of the nodes will be
rendered from lowest to highest.
And then for any node where
the height value is the same,
where it's equal,
then the parent will be drawn first,
and then siblings drawn in child order.
But so let's apply that
now to this graphic here.
So I'm saying that the helicopter
overall is at height 100 in the scene.
That's where the body is, right at 100.
Primary rotor relative to
its parent is at height 1,
but of course globally that would be 101.
So is the tail rotor at 101?
And then the missiles are at height 99,
right?
So obviously when we go to draw this,
we would draw the missiles first,
then the body,
then the primary and the tail in
the order that they appear here.
And so the result for one
helicopter would appear identical,
of course.
But the issue now is if I add
thousands of helicopters,
then we would end up drawing
all of the missiles together.
We would end up drawing
all of the bodies together.
And then the primary and tail rotor.
And that can be much more efficient
because there's many cases where we can
avoid state changes if that's the case.
But so now, besides this, though,
there's one more piece of this.
And that's that you can also,
you have the ability to remove the
constraint that nodes with the same
height will be drawn in child order.
And instead,
give that power over to Sprite Kit to
decide the order based on whatever would
be the most efficient way of drawing it.
Essentially, whatever would minimize
the number of draw calls.
In the underlying graphics hardware.
So, and we use the variable here
is ignores sibling order.
And you can set that on a scene.
So, if you put these two things together,
you set ignores sibling
order on your scene,
and then you give your
nodes an explicit height,
then now every node's global
height is going to be calculated,
and they will all be drawn
from lowest to highest.
You know, thanks, so that they work with
the painter's algorithm.
And then, but for anywhere where two
nodes have equal height,
Sprite Kit is going to sort
them to whatever would be the
most optimal amount of batching,
or essentially to reduce the number
of drawing calls that will be made,
reduce the number of state changes.
Okay.
This is something that can
give any Sprite Kit app
really fantastic performance.
This is what we encourage you
to opt into for anything that
you can hand this control over.
Ultimately,
this is something that's very simple,
but it just requires you to set
up your scene in a particular way.
Here's the key insight to have
with all of this and how you
design the layout of your scene.
To compose your scene
into layers implicitly,
where give objects a common
height in each layer,
and then anything that might
overlap with each other,
like how the body of the helicopter
overlaps with the missiles,
put those things each
in a different layer.
Then set that ignore sibling
order flag on the scene,
and then Sprite Kit now can
take full advantage of both your
knowledge of how the scene needs
to look visually based on layering,
but also do something that's completely
efficient with the graphics hardware.
Okay.
So that is it, what I wanted to talk
about for drawing order.
And just now for this very
last section of the talk,
I actually want to back up a bit to
some introductory material again and
talk just in a little more detail
about the capabilities that Sprite
Kit has for drawing animation.
So the action system is how
we do animation in Sprite Kit.
We really wanted to create an animation
system that would be very simple to use,
super powerful,
have a lot of flexibility,
but ultimately that would also have
an API that's very simple to kind of
type and real simple for programmers to
understand and read how an animation is
put together just by looking at the code.
And so all of it is wrapped up
in one class called SK Action.
And as you can see,
SK Actions can be applied
directly to a node.
They start running immediately.
They're removed from the
node when they finish.
And so it ends up being something
that's just very intuitive.
It's almost like a scripting language
for Sprite Kit because you don't really
have to write a lot of extra management
code for dealing with animations.
So here's some just simple
examples of different,
you know,
essentially the built-in basic actions,
the built-in animations
that Sprite Kit provides,
a few of them here.
You can see an animation to rotate
a sprite by a particular angle,
to move a sprite from here to there,
to fade the alpha of a sprite to,
you know, change its transparency,
and a couple to scale either uniform
in each direction or different.
And so this is just a really simple
example of a little bit of the things
that you can do to take control
of different scaling in X and Y.
So these are just some of the really
basic actions that you can apply.
But now,
something that's very cool is that
you can just start to group actions
together and combine them together.
So for example here.
So I can create action sequences where
the first action will run to completion,
for example, then start a second one,
then start a third one.
And all that it needs is some very
simple code here where I'm just
running an action and specifying a
sequence and then using Objective-C's
array notation to lay those out.
This would be a sequence.
I can also specify actions to run,
to be grouped, to run simultaneously.
That's what I'm showing here.
As you can see,
each one can have its own duration.
It can be completely
independent of the other ones.
Same kind of syntax here,
just a group instead of a sequence.
sequence.
And then compound actions
themselves can be combined together.
So here I'm using both
a sequence and a group.
So first I do, you know, with this,
I would be moving the node
to a particular location.
Then simultaneously I would be
scaling and rotating the node.
And then when that's finished,
I fade the node out.
Right?
And all of it, again, through some very
simple-to-use syntax here.
Okay, so that's compound actions.
There's also a number of
different specialty actions
that we provide with Sprite Kit.
You know, one that's very commonly used
is this for texture animation.
So here I'm just,
I'm animating my boss character
from that adventure game to
create this walking animation.
And of course,
all of these images started
out as individual loose files.
Then we put them all
into an Atlas folder,
and Sprite Kit created an Atlas for us.
And then in our code,
we just load them all out
of the Atlas and then say,
okay, animate.
And so this can be very,
very efficient to do this.
Another specialty action used a lot
is to have a node follow a CG path.
So you can see that here.
This is something, I guess,
really commonly used in arcade games,
right?
Where you would see the bad guys
follow a particular pattern while
they're shooting at you and so on.
So you have the example
that I just showed.
You also have the option of having
the orientation of the node stay
constant as it goes along the path.
Another really commonly used action and
a commonly needed functionality is the
ability to remove a node from its parent,
which ultimately removes
it from the scene,
meaning it no longer is rendered,
it no longer costs anything for physics,
and so on.
And that can be done as an action.
So you see that here, where, for example,
I might, after something happens,
my character dies,
I would fade it out as one action,
and then remove it from the scene.
And just set that up as a sequence here.
SK action sequence, fade and remove.
Right?
And the last of these that I'll
show you is just you can also set
up an action to run any arbitrary
block of code that you write.
And this ends up being super powerful.
So, you know,
here I'm setting up some actions
that are going to fade a node out,
so fade out with duration.
Then I remove that node from its parent.
And then maybe I have some more
code that I've written that's
going to show my game over menu,
and I would run that block.
But all of this can just
be put in a 2D game.
executed here as an action sequence.
Right?
Okay.
So that's quite a long
look through actions,
but there's really,
there's a huge catalog of more actions,
obviously, that I didn't have time
to show all of you.
Actions to colorize
nodes and play sounds,
repeat other actions, and so on.
But really, just a lot of power here and
a lot more that we can go into
if you have questions about it.
But okay, so that takes me to the end of
the session and my agenda here.
Actually, we've covered quite a bit.
Gave you a quick introduction to Sprite
Kit and just sort of how the API works.
Then we talked about
sprites and particles,
those different node types.
Went into atlases to
tell you how that works.
Scene transitions, drawing order,
and then wrapped up here
with actions and animation.
If you have any questions
about Sprite Kit,
you're welcome to contact me.
Here's my email address here,
or come find us on the developer forums.
And a reminder also about the lab.
We have some great folks here in the lab
along with us here in the venue who can
answer your questions about Sprite Kit,
help you optimize your code, and so on.
So, thank you very much.